Every Christian youth must ask himself a soul-searching question.
What will I do with my life?
Much like Christian youth today,
a young man named Timothy was faced with the decision
about what to do with his life.
Timothy lived in the first century.
His home was evidently a town called Listera
in the Roman province of Galatia.
Timothy's godly mother Eunice
and believing grandmother Lois raised him
to love and serve Jehovah.
However, Timothy's father was an unbeliever
and as such,
would likely have promoted the goals offered by the Roman world.
Like young ones today,
Timothy would undoubtedly have been subjected
to the influence of instructors
who would promote worldly philosophy.
What would he do with his life?
A significant event in Timothy's life
was the visit of the Apostle Paul.
In time,
Lois, Eunice,
and Timothy all became Christians.
Little did Timothy realize
how profound an influence Paul would have on his life.
By the time Paul returned to Listera,
Timothy had grown into a well-respected young man.
Paul chose him to be his traveling companion.
Timothy greatly benefited from Paul's training.
In time,
Timothy himself qualified to serve as a traveling overseer
after years of association together.
Paul and Timothy were separated.
Paul had been arrested
and sentenced to death.
Before his execution,
Paul wrote Timothy a final letter.
By the time Timothy received it,
Paul may already have been executed.
His final admonition to Timothy
keep your senses in all things.
Do the work of an evangelizer,
fully accomplish your ministry.
Like young Timothy,
Christian used today face a choice,
whether to use their lives in vain pursuits
or in the service of Jehovah.
I always loved to run.
I guess it started when I was little.
I'd raise all the kids in the neighborhood.
When I got older,
I'd run just to clear my mind.
Running just seemed to come natural to me.
In high school,
running on the track team
became the most important thing in my life.
But in the spring of my junior year,
some things were happening
that took my mind off my game.
My mother and grandmother had become Jehovah's Witnesses.
I wasn't baptized yet,
but I knew it was the truth.
The more I learned about the truth,
the more I questioned
how important running should be in my life.
Andre, everything okay?
Yeah, good, everything's great.
Fell asleep at the will back there,
lost a lot of time.
Yeah, no.
You know, I expect a lot more
from my star sprinter.
You seem distracted.
So how about they pulling you
from the winter invitation, is it?
No, of course.
You know how strict the school is
about letting students compete with an injury?
Insurance, liability.
Coach, that's not it, really.
Look, I did zone out,
but it won't happen again.
I promise.
That's what I wanted to hear, Andre.
Thursday, after school,
we'll do some extra work on that line pass.
Yeah, sure.
I don't know.
Range that coach.
Sorry I got my meeting.
Meeting?
Andre, we've got an invitational next week
in the divisional in three weeks.
That besides you've missed him before.
I know, but this is different.
I have an assignment.
I'm giving a talk.
A talk.
Last time, it was something else.
You know, coach, this is important to me.
Look, your religion is your business.
But this team is mine.
If you want to run, I need 100%.
I need you to focus.
Something you've had real trouble with lately.
Look, Andre.
If you win the divisional meet,
you'll go to state.
There'll be a dozen college scouts
with big fat scholarships lined up to meet you.
Coach, you know I want to win.
Here's your chance to prove to yourself
that you've got what it takes.
Your teammates are counting on you, Andre.
Look, you'd do your thing Thursday night
if it's that important to you.
But you're mine after that.
Got it?
Got it.
And I hit the shower.
Sure thing, coach.
Coach Clark knew how badly I wanted to win.
And he was right.
I was distracted.
That week I was giving my first talk
on the pediatric ministry school.
I'd known about it for a while,
but I had been so busy with track practice,
I hadn't even started on it.
Good things to come.
But not the very substance of the things.
Men can never with the same sacrifice.
With only a couple of days left,
the pressure was on to get it done.
Even so, I was having trouble focusing on that too.
Feeling a regular monk or something.
Just with some reading, that's all.
Maybe she'd do some reading to how to take off
and I hit my mark.
Like you never messed up.
Besides, I made up the last time.
Come on, man.
It's like your head's not in the game anymore.
Ever since you started hanging out at that church.
Kingdom Hall.
Whatever.
It's like you've been going through changes or something.
I mean, when's the last time we just hung out?
You always got some lame excuse.
Look, everything's okay between you and me really.
I just got a lot going on.
That's all.
Burdo, trust me.
We're going to win.
We better.
But two good reasons.
Reason number one.
College scholarships.
You need it and you know I need it.
What's reason number two?
Pixies on the cereal box.
After we win the gold at the Olympics.
That's right.
Hey, Mom. Hey, Grandma.
Chicken looks great, Mom.
I'm Jane.
Don't you own me an explanation?
I'm sorry, Mom.
Practice is friendly.
Again?
Well, like Dad says.
Practice makes perfect.
Do they have to work you so hard?
You barely have time for anything else.
Like that talk you have this week.
Hey, Dad.
Hi, honey.
Hey, son.
Hey, Grandma.
Hey, honey.
How was work?
Not one of my better days.
My new website kept crashing.
Dad, we worked on that blind pass today.
It needs a little work, but I think we're real close.
Oh, now 100 meters, Brent.
They may as well give me the trophy now.
Oh, that sounds great, sir.
Yeah, Coach Clark is a little worried.
But I think if we can ace the invitation next week,
then a divisional in three weeks is in the bag.
Oh, divisional in three weeks.
Andre, I'm not going to be able to make it.
I'm going to be at a town with some investors there a week.
No big deal, Dad.
I know you disappointed.
I'm going to make it up to you.
I know how hard you trained for this.
Maybe a little too much training.
How's that?
Well, I think it's too much for him.
He hardly has time to eat,
and I know that it's affecting his grades.
My grades are okay.
Okay.
Andre, okay isn't good enough.
Once you're in the business world,
you have to be better than everyone else.
You'll get eaten alive.
Dad, I just got a lot going on.
That's all.
Practice testing all that.
Let's see.
Practice tests.
Aren't you leaving something out?
What about all the time you spend going to those meetings?
But you said it was okay for me to go.
If?
If it didn't interfere with school.
Right.
Honey, I don't think they're going to the Kingdom Halls the problem.
No, Dad.
It's just the Coach Clark is step to part training.
Andre, if you try to do it all, something's going to suffer.
You're going to have to start being more responsible, son.
Well, this Thursday,
Andre's going to do something very responsible.
He's going to give a talk in front of a hundred people at our congregation.
Well, I don't see how it's going to help him do better in school.
Or anywhere else for that matter.
Well, he's learning how to communicate, to teach.
These are skills that can help Andre in whatever he chooses to do.
Honey, why don't you come to us talk and say for yourself?
Yeah, Dad, you don't have to stay for the home meeting.
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Hold on.
We all had an understanding, right?
This is not my religion, this is yours.
No offense, son.
I will not go to the Kingdom Hall, not now, not ever.
Understand?
Honey, I just thought that if you don't mind,
I would like to finish my dinner in peace.
Can I come in?
Oh, hi, Mom. Sure, come on in.
I brought you something.
Thanks, Mom.
Looks like you're working on your talk.
Yeah, I'm getting there.
Andre, your dad loves you very much.
He's had a hard time out there, and he doesn't want you
to have the same struggles or make the same mistakes.
Neither do I, but your grandmom and I,
we have another concern.
I know your dad supports your running,
and I'm trying not to interfere.
I don't want anything to become more important
than your relationship with Jehovah.
Can I love running in Jehovah?
Do you remember what Jesus said?
You cannot slave for two masters.
You end up loving one and hating the other.
Son, I know what...
Well, I better get this talk finished.
I know you do a good job, honey.
And if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him.
Now, we are not the sort that shrinks back to destruction,
but the sort that have faith to the preserving alive of the soul.
Christians are runners.
Runners in the race for life.
We must have endurance to finish that race.
Runners in a long distance race often eat a lot
of carbohydrates the night before.
Like a long-distance runner, we can build up a reserve
of spiritual strength by feeding on spiritual food.
This will help us to run the race with endurance
and to gain the prize of everlasting life.
And again, great job on your talk tonight.
Hey, we're looking forward to your next one.
Thanks, I appreciate it.
You're an evening, Andre.
Oh, brother, classic.
That was your first talk.
A real milestone.
You did an excellent job.
Thanks for the classic.
Your illustration about eating carbohydrates.
Very effective.
Well, I guess talking about running comes really easy to me.
So I've heard you know.
I was in response to myself when I was young.
You were?
Don't let this painful you, young man.
When I was your age, I had dreams of swimming in the Olympics.
Really, I never knew that.
Perhaps someday I will tell you about it.
Say, I was wondering,
do you know often energetic young man
who could help me with a small project around the house?
Sure, brother, classic.
I'd be happy to help.
I could come by Saturday after practice.
Wunderbar.
Now, I knew that brother, classic,
had been an elder for years.
And he had even been a circuit overseer.
So I was a little nervous.
I actually thought about cancelling.
But I decided to keep my word and help him out that day.
I'm glad that I did.
OK, you two, it's getting late.
Come on inside.
I just made a fresh picture of lemonade.
Know you have to take your medicine.
Ah, medicine is for sick people.
I've never felt better in my life.
You know better.
You really push yourself too hard sometimes.
I don't pay you to lecture me.
You don't pay me at all, dad.
Now, take your medicine, please.
I have to get home.
Jack and I have that new Bible study tonight.
You see, it's the freedom.
Don't cut, puppy.
Now, you two enjoy yourselves.
Don't let him keep you too late, Andre.
Why is this to Sanders?
Andre, when I heard your talk the other night,
I thought to myself,
this young man has potential.
Excellent illustrations.
By the way, did you use the index
when you research your talk?
What index?
Ah.
The index is like a map to hidden treasures.
You just have to know how to use that map.
Can you see that dark red book over there?
This one here?
Yes, please.
Have a seat.
The light please.
This is a watchtower publication index.
In it, you find different subject in alphabetical order.
Let's say, for example,
that you want information on endurance.
Do you see all the subheadings under endurance?
Yes, lots.
Adversity, cultivating,
David, Jehovah, Jesus Christ, modern day witnesses.
Under each subheading,
you see a list of references.
Now, to find out what these abbreviations mean,
you just turn to the front of the index
and here you have them.
And you know, there's another interesting feature.
For example, you read a Bible text
and you want to know.
We had a race with a local school that week
and the divisional meet was getting closer.
So the coach was really stepping up the pressure.
All right, back kicks.
All right, look what you're there, Andre.
Stick!
Most love you there, Baker and Jones.
All right, reset.
Let you know we're on your feet.
Here you go.
Some more paint.
My friend.
Thank you.
By the way, I didn't see you at the meteor on Thursday night.
I was concerned you had taken sick.
Oh, no.
It's because the divisional meet is just two weeks away.
The coach is really pushing us hard.
It takes a lot to be a winner, doesn't it?
How far do you think you'll go with your running?
I've always dreamed of running in the Olympics.
But I don't know if I'm good enough for that.
I'll probably get a scholarship to a good university.
Get a good job.
I'd be pretty happy with that.
Ah, education.
A good job.
It's nice to think about these things.
What sort of spiritual goals do you have?
Oh, you mean they're getting baptized?
I definitely plan on doing that.
When I'm ready.
Ah, excellent.
Baptism opens a door to a life of service to Jehovah.
Have you ever thought about the many opportunities open for a young man like you?
Bessel service?
Pioneering?
Ministerial training school?
Me?
I don't know if I'm cut out for any of that, but if I say...
It's not a requirement, isn't it?
Requirement?
No.
But Jehovah does require that we give him our best.
Well, how do you know what your best is?
The coach says you are the best runner on the team.
Why does he think that?
I know them fast, because I work really hard at it.
I take it very seriously.
Ah, now, suppose you start missing practice.
You are destructed by other things.
The day of the big race comes and you finish in last place.
How would the coach feel then?
I would not be happy.
And why?
He knows what I can do.
What I'm capable of.
I guess he didn't know I wasn't giving it my best.
Coach, you want to see me?
Hey, Andre.
Come on in, son.
Are you okay?
Oh, yeah, fine.
Snowden's reacting up again.
That's all.
How did it happen?
Ah.
My junior year in college.
I was practicing for the conference finals.
I was coming around the curve.
My knee goes out.
I go down like a sack of potatoes.
So you didn't get to run in the finals?
Well, I got to run, all right.
I got some real strong pain killer.
A lot of guys use that stuff.
Wish I had that for the winter and rotational.
Yeah, right.
As soon as the school found out I'll let you run with an injury,
I'd be out of a job.
Anyway, stuff worked all right.
I won the race.
But your leg got messed up.
Yeah, a couple surgeries.
Pain killer from time to time.
But I tell you what, Dempster.
I don't regret it a bit.
I finally got to taste what being a winner.
It's all about.
Coach, I know what you wanted to see me.
Because your performance today was less than stellar?
Something like that.
No, that's not why.
I want to have a seat.
Andre, I've known you for almost three years now.
Probably spent more time with you than with my own kids.
You're one of my best runners.
Hands down.
If there's anyone on this team that's got what it takes to be a winner,
it's you.
Listen to me at some little high school race.
Spat your future.
Son, you have a gift.
A God-given gift.
Don't waste it.
Listen to your heart.
Be what you know you can be.
A winner.
Sure thing, coach.
All right, go home and get some rest.
And Andre, try not to hurt yourself this damn partner.
So, Andre, is the coach still working you very hard?
Oh, yeah.
But we never win otherwise.
Winning means a lot to you, doesn't it?
The rush across in the finish line?
Win in the trophy?
I guess it's hard to explain.
Ah, the finishing touch.
Very common.
Welcome.
Andre.
Do you remember how I told you that I used to swim?
I haven't looked at this for years.
Ah, here it is.
Well, the flexic, is that you?
I'm not bad, is it?
I laughed swimming.
My dream was to swim in the Olympics,
and my coaches told me I had the talent.
So, why didn't you?
My goals seemed right within my grasp.
Then one day...
The witnesses.
I laughed what I was learning.
I knew it was a truth.
At first, I tried very hard to be dedicated to Jehovah
as well as to my sport.
Were you able to?
I missed many meetings.
I realized the truthfulness of Jesus' word.
You cannot slave for two masters.
So, I took a stand for Jehovah
and resigned from my swim team.
It was a good thing that I did.
Why is that?
Andre, the world went to war.
The Olympics were cancelled.
Many of my former teammates joined Hitler's army.
I shatter to think that I might have joined them.
No way I would have done that.
Millions did put face in hateless promises.
But only because I was active in the truth.
I was not deceived.
Like so many of our brothers,
I was arrested and thrown into the concentration camp.
Many of our brothers lost their lives.
It was only with Jehovah's help.
I endured.
But in spite of everything,
I was happy.
Happy?
How could you be happy?
Happiness does not come from possession of worldly success.
Happiness comes from knowing you are pleasing to Jehovah.
In the camp, we had the opportunity
to prove our love for Jehovah
and we learned to trust him absolutely.
That made us happy.
Let me show you something.
In the camp I had this.
When I was your age,
I wanted many things.
Fame, money.
How do you call it?
The good life.
In the camp, that meant nothing.
But this bowl meant something.
With it, I could eat and live.
Ever so often, I take it out as a reminder.
A reminder of one.
That when we put Jehovah first,
we don't need many material things.
All we really need is our spoon and bowl.
After I was released from the camp,
I decided to serve Jehovah in the full-time service.
Eventually, I married my dear wife, Gisela.
We had a wonderful life together in Jehovah's service.
Together, we served as pioneers,
then in the circuit work,
and in raising our daughter joy.
Andre, do you see all these people
was by my wife and myself?
Yeah, who are they?
These are just some of the people
we helped come into the truth.
No trophy could have brought me so much joy.
But what if the war hadn't come for the flicing?
Do you think you might have regretted giving up your dreams?
Dad, I'll be right in with your medicine.
Okay, darling.
Andre, when you get home,
look up Philippians chapter 3 verse 8.
I think that will answer your question.
Why, for that matter,
I do indeed also consider all things to be lost
on account of the excelling value
of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord.
On account of Him, I have taken the loss of all things
and I consider them as a lot of refuse.
Grandma, what do you think for the flicing man?
Well, the Apostle Paul said he'd taken the loss of all things.
What do you think he meant?
All the things he gave up.
Right. Paul was a well-educated man.
He could have become rich and famous.
But once he learned the truth about the Christ,
he gave all that up.
We'd the last part of that verse again.
And I consider them as a lot of refuse.
Refused like garbage.
So, Paul realized that in the long run,
all the things he gave up were nothing but garbage.
Here today, gone tomorrow.
Grandma, is it wrong for me to want to become a track star?
Is it wrong?
It comes down to the price you're willing to pay.
And what do you mean?
Remember how Satan offered Jesus all the kingdoms of the world?
What did Satan want in return?
He wanted Jesus to worship him.
If you want to be a star, in Satan's world,
don't you think he's going to want something from you?
That path down the line.
Poetry and motion, man. That trophy's a bag.
I'll just have to run a little bit faster to make up for your lost time.
Why? I can whip you any day.
In your dreams.
Ooh. Team Anchorman.
Coaches Pat. Big star.
I take you any day.
Here to the other end of the line.
That's what I thought. Come on, are you just shouting?
No, I understand.
Now I want to get whipped in front of these girls.
Not good for your rep.
A bird.
What?
Go.
Are you okay?
Oh, Coaches is going to kill me.
The same guy.
Come on.
You see if I can get you off.
Shit, maybe you're torsing to me.
Probably Saturday's last time.
Oh, man, they're saying funny.
Oh, how am I going to run tomorrow?
I can't believe this.
Stay calm.
You just need a shot.
You know, painkillers.
The pros use it all the time.
No, man, forget it.
Payment found out the coach are getting trouble.
The school don't have to know.
Nobody does.
I know just what you need.
Man, I don't know about that.
And no, bro, forget it.
Look, man.
Do you really want to watch another me from the sidelines?
Huh?
Besides, without you, I team his sunk.
I'm sunk.
Now wait the time to get right to saw me, Andre.
Bro, come on.
You're not breaking no law.
Just some dumb rule.
Let's go before a coach sees you like this.
And trust me, it'll be okay.
Andre, I'm trying to tell you.
They cannot stop the true blue wild bell.
They tried it, but we did it, bro.
See, I told you that stuff will work.
It's secret safe for me.
Every time a student walks by the trophy case,
he's going to see this.
Have to be careful, though.
We can't rest on our laurels and our accomplishments.
Next, there's the state championships.
And for some of you, it doesn't have to stop there.
So what I need is more focus, more commitment,
and more dedication.
I'll require some hard work, some sacrifice.
But it's worth it, isn't it?
Question is, are y'all up to the challenge?
Yes!
If you want to be a star in Satan's world,
don't you think he's going to want something from you?
But I'm just afraid that running is slowing you down spiritually.
They could have brought me so much.
Oh, there you are.
I'll be back in a little while.
I got to see Brother Fleissig.
Is everything all right?
Man, what's wrong?
Andre, that was Joy.
Brother Fleissig, he died this afternoon.
I'm so sorry, honey.
I'm so sorry.
I wish I could see him just one more time.
I really needed to talk to him.
I want you to know Dad really cared about you, Andre.
And he left this for you.
It's something he wanted you to have.
My dear friend, Andre.
I want you to have this little moment of our times together.
I hope that you will always remember the lesson it taught me.
I have been sick for some time.
And I'm afraid that soon this tired heart of mine will stop.
And we will not be having our little talks anymore.
That makes me very sad.
But I do not want you to mourn, Andre.
Rejoice that I have run the race to the finish.
My young friend.
I do not know what you will do with a precious life Jehovah has given you.
I can only say that unless you use it to serve Jehovah,
you will always feel empty.
Use your life to serve him.
And you will have joy and happiness.
Remember the blessing of Jehovah,
that is what makes rich.
And he adds no pain with it.
I'm confident, Andre, that you will enjoy a wonderful life in Jehovah's service.
Your friend eternally, Walter Flicic.
That is quite a letter, Brother Demster.
How did this affect you?
Well, I began to think.
To really think about my future.
What I should do with my life.
So step by step, I began rearranging my priorities.
Please, tell everyone here with that involved.
Well, for starters, I had to quit the track team.
Was that hard for you?
Yes, it was.
I loved running.
But the pressure to win was very powerful.
And I could see that the deeper I got into sports,
the more compromises I might have to make.
But most importantly, it would interfere with my new spiritual goals.
What kind of spiritual goals did you set?
At first, the basics.
Personal Bible study.
Praying.
Getting to the meetings.
All the meetings.
And eventually getting baptized.
Then my next goal was to enter the full-time ministry.
I've been pioneering for four years now.
Looking back, Brother Demster.
Do you have any regrets over the sacrifices that you have made?
Absolutely not.
Just knowing I'm pleasing Jehovah, helping people study the Bible,
and encouraging them to set spiritual goals.
There's nothing like it, Brother Taylor.
Now, I've been told that another one of your goals will soon be reached.
Is that true?
That's right.
Last week, I received my invitation to attend the next class
of the ministerial training school.
Thank you very much, Brother Demster.
And wouldn't we like to thank all of our young pioneers
for those encouraging interviews?
I guess you could say I've been blessed.
I've had a mother and grandmother who always encouraged me
to pursue spiritual goals.
And a father who has begun to show an interest in the truth.
But Jehovah has also blessed me in another way,
with a very special friendship.
Brother Flicig helped me to discover something that changed my life.
That I had something to offer Jehovah, more than I realized.
Every so often, I wonder what my life would be if I had pursued other things.
Would I have more money?
Be famous?
Maybe.
But then I remember the words of a dear old friend.
Unless you use your life to serve Jehovah, you will always feel empty.
Well, I don't feel empty.
I feel fulfilled, happy, with more blessings than I could count.
Oh, and I'm still running.
But in a different race, the race for life,
that's a race I plan to keep on running in.
And with Jehovah's help, it's a race I intend to win.